# MPD integration

This page describes an integration with the [Music Player
Daemon](https://www.musicpd.org/). This consists of two parts: A [[pure Lua
library for talking to mpc|mpc.lua]] and an example on how to use this for a
widget with awesome.

## The library

The library provides a function `mpc.new` that creates a new object representing
a connection to MPD. It can be used as follows:

    local connection = require("mpc").new(host, port, password, error_handler, idle_commands...)

This will establish a TCP connection to the given host and port and, if a
password is given, log in to the MPD server. Whenever an error happens (for
example the connection is lost or the password is rejected), the given error
handler function is called with the error as its argument. The next time the
connection is used, an automatic reconnection is attempted.

A description of the MPD protocol can be fined
[here](https://www.musicpd.org/doc/protocol/). This library only provides
low-level access to the protocol. However, special support for the idle command
is provided via extra arguments to the `new` function. This will be made clear
in an example below.

For example, to get information about the currently playing song:

    connection:send("currentsong", function(success, data)
        if not success then print("command failed") end
        print("Information about the current song:")
        require("gears.debug").dump(data)
    end)

## A sample widget

The following keeps a textbox up-to-date with the MPD status. It automatically
updates when the current MPD state changes.

    local mpc = require("mpc")
    local textbox = require("wibox.widget.textbox")
    local timer = require("gears.timer")
    local mpd_widget = textbox()
    local state, title, artist, file = "stop", "", "", ""
    local function update_widget()
        local text = "Current MPD status: "
        text = text .. tostring(artist or "") .. " - " .. tostring(title or "")
        if state == "pause" then
            text = text .. " (paused)"
        end
        if state == "stop" then
            text = text .. " (stopped)"
        end
        mpd_widget.text = text
    end
    local connection
    local function error_handler(err)
        mpd_widget:set_text("Error: " .. tostring(err))
        -- Try a reconnect soon-ish
        timer.start_new(10, function()
            connection:send("ping")
        end)
    end
    connection = mpc.new(nil, nil, nil, error_handler,
        "status", function(_, result)
            state = result.state
        end,
        "currentsong", function(_, result)
            title, artist, file = result.title, result.artist, result.file
            pcall(update_widget)
        end)

If you actually want to be able to control MPD's behaviour, you could for
example do the following to pause/unpause when clicking on the widget:

    mpd_widget:buttons(awful.button({}, 1, function() connection:toggle_play() end))
