## How to do a release

### Local preparations

The following steps are done in a checkout of the *awesome* git repository.

* The codename:
  * Pick some codename that  is not already listed in [[Releases]].
  * jd always picked a song title, you should do the same.
  * Edit `awesomeConfig.cmake` and change the argument in `set(CODENAME "Foo")`.
  * `git commit -sm 'change codename' awesomeConfig.cmake`
* Git sign with `git tag -s vX.Y -m 'awesome vX.Y`'
* Run `make dist` to create tarballs. You need to have GPG set up correctly, because the tarballs will be signed.
* Copy the tarballs and the signatures into the awesome-releases repository and
  commit the result.

The following steps are done in a checkout of the *awesome-www* git repository.

* Create a release-branch via `git checkout -b release`.
* Add the release version and date to [[Releases]].
* Update `download.mdwn` to add version information and links.
* Go into the 'src' submodule, and update it to vX.Y with `git pull
  path/to/your/awesome/repo tag vX.Y && git checkout vX.Y`.
* Commit `download.mdwn`, `releases.mdwn`, and `src` with `git commit -sm 'vX.Y'
  download.mdwn releases.mdwn src`.

### The final steps

* Push the new commits
  * In the awesome-releases repository
  * In the awesome-www repository (push just the release branch!)
  * In the awesome repository (make sure the tag is also pushed!)
* Create a pull request to the awesome-www repository for the release branch.
  This makes sure that the Travis build will be successful when merging into the
  master branch.
* Create the release on GitHub:
  * Go to the GitHub release page <https://github.com/awesomeWM/awesome/releases/new>.
  * Enter `vX.Y` into the "Tag version"-field. GitHub should recognize this as
    an existing tag.
  * Enter `Awesome vX.Y` into the "Release title" field.
  * Come up with something good for the description field. A nice idea is to
    mention some highlights and to link to a porting document.
  * Attach the tarballs and signatures created by `make dist`.
* Verify the pull request to the awesome-www repository built successful and
  merge it into the master branch.
* Change the topic on IRC.
* Check the links to the downloads on the webpage.
