The first release candidate version of the upcoming 3.1 version is out, noted
3.1-rc1.  To download it, see the [[download]] page.

Don't hesitate to report bugs and ask or write enhancements on [awesome BTS](/bugs/).

Changelog:

 * awesome-client is now a true REPL: so it now returns things like errors;
 * mouse events now support button release;
 * awful has been splited in several modules;
 * the window stacking has been reworked and handled special windows (dock,
   desktop) much better;
 * window type is now exported and correctly handled;
 * any window can go fullscreen;
 * widget can get an event when the mouse enters in it;
 * placement (smart, under_mouse, etc) has been move into awful;
 * statusbars and titlebars has been merged in a common type: wibox;
 * wibox can be floating (i.e. you can now write your own conky-like with
 * wiboxes);
 * _NET_WM_STRUT_PARTIAL is now supported so panel and dock automagically puts
   padding around the screen;
 * sticky windows are handled like sticky windows and are not tagged anymore;
 * windows that get reparented are now unmanaged (that fixes view of PDF etc in
   your browser);
 * a new image type has been introduced so you can manipulate image directly in
 * awesome and use them;
 * a new imagebox widget has been (re)introduced to use image objects;
 * a real minimize/iconify state is now available;
 * awesome gets a --check to check Lua syntax file; restart is now also checked
   for syntax file by default.
 * Text can now be spread across multiple lines, using pango ability to wrap
 * text;
 * New full screen layout;
 * awful.clients.swap.bydirection function;
 * Images get crop_and_scale() method;
 * New module: invaders, a space invader game;
 * New module: naughty, notification module (like GNOME's notification-daemon);
 * More hooks: "clients" for client list changes, "tags" for tag list changes
   and "tagged" for client's tag list changes;
 * Wiboxes's widgets can now be composed of arrays of arrays, specifying a
   DAG structure, unless
   of a simple array. A reference is kept to it so it can be retrieved later.
   Any array can be modified with awesome being notified using a proxy table
   system.
   Taglist and tasklist widgets are gone from core and are now written in Lua,
   using the above system.
 * awful prompt support underline;
 * textbox can specify ellipsize and wrap mode;
 * Zaphod mode is working again;
 * imagebox supports vertical alignmen.

Have fun and be awesome!
