[[toc levels=2]]

# What are uicb?
In *awesome*, a lot of functions are available. These functions are called **uicb** (User Interface Call Backs). Each function can be bound to a key shortcut. The syntax is:

    (("Modifier1", "Modifier2", ...), "key", "uicb function")
or

    (("Modifier1", "Modifier2", ...), "key", "uicb function", "argument")

Some of these functions are bound to mouse buttons and those are not (yet) configurable.

# Uicb function list

## quit
    Syntax: quit

This function quits *awesome*.

## killclient
    Syntax: killclient

This function closes the focused client.

## moveresize
    Syntax: moveresize x y width height

This function allows to dynamically move and resize floating windows.

Coordinates can be relative or absolute. Relative values must begin with + or -.

For example, resizing a window to 200x200 without moving it will be done with:

    "moveresize", "+0 +0 200 200"

To move a window 10 pixels up:

    "moveresize", "+0 +10 +0 +0"

To move a window in the upper left corner and increase its width by 10px:

    "moveresize", "0 0 +0 +10"

## settrans
    Syntax: settrans float

Set client transparency, number can be a relative or absolute floating number in percentage.

## setborder
    Syntax: setborder [integer]

Set default border size in pixels for new clients.

## swapnext
    Syntax: swapnext

Swap window placement with the next displayed window.

## swapprev
    Syntax: swapprev

Swap window placement with the previous displayed window.

## focusnext
    Syntax: focusnext

Focus next window.


## focusprev
    Syntax: focusprev

Focus previous window.

## setlayout
    Syntax: setlayout [relative or absolute integer]

Set layout number # or just switch to the next layout.

## togglemax
    Syntax: togglemax

Set window fullscreen. Calling this function another time will reset the window to its previous state.

## togglehorizontalmax
    Syntax: togglehorizontalmax

Set window's horizontal size to display width. Calling this function another time will reset the window to its previous state.

## toggleverticalmax
    Syntax: toggleverticalmax

Set window's vertical size to display height. Calling this function another time will reset the window to its previous state.

## zoom
    Syntax: zoom

Set window as master window.

## focusnextscreen
    Syntax: focusnextscreen

Focus first window in the next screen (Zaphod mode only, Xinerama not yet supported).

## focusprevscreen
    Syntax: focusprevscreen

Focus first window in the previous screen (Zaphod mode only, Xinerama not yet supported).

## movetoscreen
    Syntax: movetoscreen [relative or absolute integer]

Move focused window to the nth screen, or next (+1) or previous (-1). If no screen_number
is set, move to the next screen.

## togglebar
    Syntax: togglebar

Hide or show statusbar.

## tag
    Syntax: tag tagname

Tag focused window with this tag.

## togglefloating
    Syntax: togglefloating

Set window floating or tiled.

## toggletag
    Syntax; toggletag tagname

Add tag to focused window.

## toggleview
    Syntax: toggleview tagname

Add windows tagged with tagname to current display.

## view
    Syntax: view tagname

View windows tagged with tagname

## view\_tag\_prev_selected
    Syntax: view_tag_prev_selected

Switch back to the previously displayed set of tags.

## tag_viewnext
    Syntax: tag_viewnext

Show windows tagged with next tag in list.

## tag_viewprev
    Syntax: tag_viewprev

Show windows tagged with previous tag in list.

## spawn
    Syntax: spawn program

Execute an external program.

## exec
    Syntax: exec program

Replace *awesome* with another window manager.
